Hello, everybody. Welcome to a new episode of the
Decent. I'm your host, Ricardo Lobs. And today I'm
joined by Doctor Zen Pellegrini and J Sat Toulou.
Uh Dr Pellegrini is a professor of performance studies
and Social and cultural analysis at New York University
and also a psychoanalyst in private practice in New
York City. And Doctor Sato is uh also a
psychoanalyst in New York City and a member of
the faculty at the NYU postdoctoral Program in Psychotherapy
and Psychoanalysis. And today we're talking about their book
Gender Without Identity. So, and every welcome to the
show, it's a huge pleasure to everyone.
Thank you. Thank you so much for this invitation.
So uh before we get into the specific content
of your book, would you like to start by
telling us? And this is particularly for the audience,
what motivated you to write this book? And I
mean, because I know that and you describe that
in the book precisely, uh I know that there's
a bit of a history behind the book. So
could you tell us about that?
Yeah, very storied history. Um I mean, I can
say something really quickly about it and maybe Anne
if you wanna like just uh flesh it out
more. Uh THE very short version of it is
that um uh before we wrote a book, um
we had received a very prestigious award which we
were very excited about and then faced a lot
of suppression regarding this work. Uh And I hope
we'll talk a little bit about why today. Um
And um in facing that suppression, we were left
with having to decide what we were going to
do with that material. And um I will say
more about the details, but we ended up taking
a sharp turn away from publishing in an academic
journal. Um AND uh deciding that we could approach
a press. We are really enamored by and which
ended up publishing uh this work. So it was
not kind of like how we started out out,
we didn't intend to write this book. This book
is almost, it's, it's strange to say this. Um
And it, it may sound fake but it actually,
it feels very true to us um that the
book was kind of an accident. OK.
Yeah, this, this accidental book is the result of
um actually a very unhappy experience with the international
journal of psychoanalysis. Um WHICH is the I JP.
The I GP is the oldest journal in the
field of psychoanalysis. It was founded by Freud himself.
So it has a very August history. Um We
avi and I wrote a paper together which we
submitted for consideration for the first ever Tus paper
award. With this was being given by the Sexual
and Gender Diversity Studies Committee of the International Psychoanalytical
Association or IP A. The IP A is also,
it's the oldest psychoanalytic organization in the world and
the um Sexual and gender Diversity studies committee. He
started with surprise to actually start to solicit work
that could sort of push psychoanalysis forward in terms
of thinking about sexual and gender diversities to increase
um both both psychoanalytic thinking about how to work
with um LGBT Q people, but also to um
basically have a more um let's say um affirmative
clinical practices. So we said we wrote a paper
together which was organized around a beautiful case study
of Avi's work with a young gender non conforming
child. We submitted that paper in 2021 and to
our delight, we were awarded the first Tarius Paper
award and one of the outcomes of this award
was the possibility of having our um paper published
in the International Journal of Psychoanalysis. So we submitted
our paper and this, the editors had to read
it and agree that in fact um met their
publication standards and they decided it did. They gave
us some suggestions for revision which we took up.
We spent a year working on our revisions. During
the course of that, there was a change in
the editorial leadership of the journal. The next um
editor also read the essay also confirmed it was
going to be published. Also gave us some actually
quite helpful feedback. We made some additional revisions, everything
was on track or so we thought for publication
we handed in what we thought was our last
version of the article on in June of 2021.
We included in that last version, something that's quite
standard in academic publications. We included the set of
Acknowledgments. That was the first footnote of our essay.
Again, this is completely standard in academic publications that
you would have Acknowledgments. Um You know, thanking people
who had helped you along the way, you know,
sort of and, and um we sent in the
essay, we'd also added a few paragraphs giving more
of the social context for arguments. We didn't hear
back for a week for, for a week. And
then when we heard back everything had changed, we
were kindly, that was the word used, kindly asked
to remove certain sentences from our Acknowledgments. So they
actually highlighted the sentences we wanted removed. We were
told to remove the additional paragraphs we'd added in
the main text giving some of the historical context
for our argument. And we were utterly befuddled. We
were given no reasons for these removals. And when
we asked, um we were actually not told directly,
um and it became clear quite suddenly that the
publication of our essay which had already been accepted
for publication twice and in writing, but our publication
was now newly contingent on our willingness to take
out the sentences they demanded we remove. And maybe
a, you can say a little bit about these
sentences because they actually are connected to the heart
of our books of, of our now books argument.
Yeah. I mean, the, the sentences that we were
asked to remove were doing two things. They were
welcoming uh trans and queer subjects into psychoanalysis, people
that psychoanalysis is usually treated as problems. Um And
in fact, we were welcoming them. Um Certainly we're
not the first to welcome trans subjects in psychoanalysis.
So it shouldn't become as such a surprise, but
it was very particular to this award which was
put together to actually fight institutional homo transphobia in
psychoanalysis, which is a field with a very bad
history in its treatment of uh of gay and
trans subjects. So we want to make that explicit.
And we also welcomed uh our trans and queer
colleagues, not just as patients, but also our colleagues,
our peers, our teachers, our students uh as people
in the field with equitable power rather than as
just subjects of the analytic gaze and of therapeutic
attention. Um And back then, we were at some
point when we really press for what is going
on, we're told this is too political. It's, it's
we, we were told actually that it wasn't good
for us to include it. And they were trying
to protect us and asking to remove it. And
um we, we thought that that was quite absurd.
Like we, we've both published quite extensively in queer
and trans studies. Uh In fact, there's nothing uh
undermining of one's work in acknowledging that um a
field has harmed people. Um I think that the
worry probably was more that the field was going
to look bad in some of these things being
named in the journals pages. So we went back
and forth a lot. Um Con fact, there were
um at some point like we, we really protested
the retraction of the publication commitment. Uh We really
um uh expressed our concern about the suppression of
queerness and that kind of approach to queerness. Um
The journal responded with legal sounding language that generated
a lot of concerns and the people receiving those
emails about whether there was going to be, I
mean, we were told that what we were saying
was a calumny and um slanderous. I think slanderous
was a word that was used and correctly. We
came to understand that there were concerns that we
were going to be sued for libel that he
could be sued for libel just for saying that
suppression was happening, which was quite bizarre because you
know, anybody who has published in a psych Analytic
in a, in a journal, like in the academy
knows that, you know, like Acknowledgments are never kind
of like subjected to this kind of um kind
of like constrained. Um THEY are completely separate from
what one writes in the text itself. It's not
subject to editorial revision. And it's, it's kind of
unheard of for a journal to say we publish
this and then say, actually we want, unless you
do this or that, um, that we're asking you
to do. Usually that happens during the editorial process
by the time something is accepted, it's accepted. So,
um, you know, there was a lot of back
and forth, eventually became very clear to us that
they were not going to publish it. They told
us we either will publish the previous version or
this one. And we said, no, um they said
you can make your decisions. So with a lot
of anguish because the journal does reach parts of
the world that um are not easily reached, especially
for these kinds of issues. And we didn't want
that kind of reach for the first to prize.
We, we eventually said, ok, we'll, we'll go elsewhere,
we'll take this work elsewhere and then something really
um both um upsetting and also in retrospect, quite
amusing happened. Uh WHICH is that the journal changed
its tune and addressed um the committee to say,
uh some version of like, we don't know these
people, like we don't have an agreement with them.
Our agreement is with you. If your first series
CS prize paper appears elsewhere, you will be in
breach of our agreement, you know, like in breach
of agreement is legal language. So now, of course,
the committee now is also like kind of like
scurrying around trying to figure out is this a
threat of a lawsuit, like what is going on
here? And if you, you know, in real time,
I have to say I'm laughing now, but in
real time, this was all very upsetting, uh incredibly
stressful. But when you look back on it, it's,
it's kind of like kind of both predictable and
um uh kind of the problem that the committee
was trying to address through the Tus Prize. Um
THAT the first, the first time that the International
Economic Association is awarding a paper specifically on uh
LGBT Q issues is also met with such resistance
and met with such um like suppression. So kind
of like, so we wanted to, to, to see
what could happen with this material, we had to
decide what to do with it. And as I
said, at the beginning, we approached a press, we
really love the unconscious in translation. We approached Jonathan
House. Um The press's um editor explained the situation
and asked if he would be willing to publish
it into a kind of like expanded version. And
so we added some material um and a chapter
from a theorist we're working with and the book
came out as gender without identity um in June
2023. Um So we're very happy to have a
book now, despite all the back and forth uh
which taught us so much about where psychoanalysis continues
to be.
I mean, we, we wrote, you know, we wrote
the article, uh you know, the paper and then
the article and now the book in part to
flag the, it turns out ongoing difficulties psychoanalysis has
had thinking complexly about diverse genders and sexualities and
not just in thinking but in actually, in its
work with people who present non normative genders or
people who have queer sexualities. So we got an
incredible lesson in real time of precisely those struggles,
those ongoing struggles and psychoanalysis. And they're not just
struggles, the actual ways in which psychoanalysis treats queer
and trans people. It has treated and continues to
treat queer and trans people actually despicably, right. Um
There are things changing but um there are, there
are still huge um challenges within psychoanalysis over these
issues.
So let's get into that before we get into
the main argument of your book. Uh IN what
ways uh the psychoanalysis traditionally tend to approach LGBT
Q plus people. I mean, what are some of
the main things they say about uh these people
to put it? That's a great, sorry, go ahead
um to put it a bit in a historical
context. Uh This is no longer the case in
the US, even though it continues to be the
case in other countries in the world. Like if
you're out and gay, it used to be that
you couldn't train, you were explicitly seen as being
pathological and you would be excluded, such as gay
people were advised in the eighties to not disclose
their homosexuality in order to not be disqualified from
being considered to train as psychoanalysts.
But but, but why,
because, because homosexuality was seen as pathology, it was
seen as kind of not having met the developmental
milestones and not having gone through normal development in
the way that a psychoanalyst who should be the
epitome of mental health. Like if you're going to
be treating other people, you should be healthy yourself.
And if you're gay, you're not healthy. And that,
you know, used to be very explicitly the case,
of course, it would be legal today. But, you
know, it continued to happen um in ways that
are more covert. So nobody would say anymore, like
um that it's because of somebody's homosexuality. But with
time as it became more illegal, people would find
other reasons to reject candidates who were candidates for
training, who were gay. Um AS I said, this
doesn't happen anymore in the United States explicitly. Um
Even though of course, it's always better if you're
gay, if you're also married and perhaps have kids
that really situates you as the safer gay person,
um kind of like common activities alive and well
in, in economic training. But, but in Europe, like,
you know, I was there a few years ago
giving a talk actually at that committee's first Study
day, first International Study Day. And a lot of
colleagues from Europe came out as being gay or
queer in that space and expressed their fear of
telling their institutes or express their fears of speaking
up about these kinds of issues for fear of
retribution. Um And this is not to even get
into how psychoanalysis has treated gay patients um or
trans patients. Um I mean, in um in analytic
institutes up until recently, even having uh a training
case when you're trained to be an analyst, you
usually have a case that is very closely supervised
by a colleague. As you're learning how to tran
to transition from doing therapeutic work to analytic work.
And um those cases have to be approved, they
have to meet certain criteria so that they meet
the criteria for your training. They would not approve
trans patients as training cases because kind of like
they were too much fringe um kind of like
they were too much out of the norm. So
you see there's like so many levels on which
psychoanalysis has historically failed. Um And as it's been
making changes and trying to make improvements, you see
like the proliferation of these committees. But you also
see kind of like in the experience that we
were describing earlier, how quickly it generates tremendous kind
of resistance.
But let me ask you perhaps a more specific
question also for the audience to have a better
understanding of what where those ideas come from. I
mean, perhaps theoretically speaking, why is it that in
psychoanalysis, let's say developmentally people would consider a gay
people or trans people to be uh abnormal if
we can use that word here.
I, I think this is a actually a really
important question. And you know, if we go back
to the historical origins of psychoanalysis, which is in
actually Freud's own theory, his body of work, he
was profoundly ambivalent about what we might call today.
Homosexuality. This isn't always the language he used. But
you know, in some of his earliest work and
maybe the famous important text here is his 1905
3 essays and the Theory of sexuality. In the
first edition of that, we see him. Um Actually,
at least in the first two essays is three
essays presenting, you know, saying of sexuality something quite
radical that it could develop in any direction. And
sometimes he's saying there's no such thing as normal
sexuality, right? It it that it could take any
number of forms, any number of object choices, any
number of sexual acts can result in pleasure, right?
And so he's really pulled the rug out from
under the normative picture of sexuality as being heterosexuality.
Um That's the first two essays. By the time
you though you get to the third essay of
that text in 1905, he reasserts um the normative
picture of human development. You have to move through
these stages towards becoming heterosexual. And that movement towards
becoming heterosexual, a kind of secure heterosexuality includes also
normative gender positions. The boy becomes masculine, the girl
becomes feminine. And so this again, this radical that's
there. At the beginning of this text starts to
be gradually pulled back. And you know, this is
this is so even as Freud for example, um
you know said in publicly that um homosexuality should
not be uh illegal, it should, it is not
something that requires institutionalization, which were actually important things
and radical things to say in his day. But
he, he, he really was of two minds um
both in his moment historically and ahead of it
at the same time. It's, you know, um so
there's a conservatism, a kind of tension within psychoanalysis
from the beginning. But the thing, one of the
things that gets picked up from Freud's early thinking
and elaborated by colleagues who are actually perhaps even
more conservative than he ultimately was is that homosexuality
represents a kind of regression. You're supposed to keep
moving forward. There's this picture of a normative development,
you move across time in one direction only. So
if someone gets stuck or fixated on a homosexual
object choice, then this is because you've either again
gotten stuck, you haven't kept progressing in the right
direction or you've fallen backwards, you've had a regression.
It's a kind of, you know, it's like you've
become primitive again in your sexuality. And I use
the term primitive, quite aware of its racial connotations
because that's there too. There's this notion of, you
know, that what does it mean to have a
civilized sexuality which is connected also to projects of
whiteness and colonialism. And that's unfortunately baked into psychoanalysis
because this is also the historical context within which
it emerges.
Uh And, and about that historical context, I mean,
I guess we will come back to that idea
when we talk about in a bit the, the
approach you have to gender identity in the book.
But that's a very important element here, right? In
terms of the development of psychoanalysis as a discipline
and even more more broadly in our society in
general, how we think about gender identity and even
how people develop their own gender identities, history and
social context is very important here.
Absolutely. And you know, again, I, I think there's
so many radical openings in Freud and in other
psychoanalytic thinkers, but there's a whole conservative plot around
them, so to speak, it's sort of like it
gets slowed down. And certainly, you know, A and
II, I um it is fair to say this
and both of us, we love psychoanalysis and we
love its possibilities, what it can actually offer for
queer and trans life. We actually think it can
offer us different ways to think about our, about
ourselves, our interactions with others and to promote flourishing
for all sorts of diversities. But we're also aware
that some of the ways in which it got
again, ST psychoanalysis has gotten stuck in certain ways,
these are ongoing problems. And we really would like
to, you know, we, we offer this book and
arguments as a way to sort of try to
loosen up some of these impasses within psychoanalysis because
we think it is actually can offer very supple
ways to think about how anyone becomes and changes
over time because we are actually interested in our
book in the question of development. But what's very
distinctive about the argument we're offering is we would
distinguish development actually charting how things change over time
from the developmental is which actually states you can
only develop in one direction only. And any departure
from this linear chronology of A to B this
again, teleological linear chronology, any departure from that means
that you've been warped, means that you're pathological means
that something in you has gone wrong.
So tell us then about the sort of uh
argument regarding gender identity that you present in the
book. I mean, tell us about the main argument
and then we can break it down and go
through some of its details.
Yeah, I mean, there's two main threads to the
argument in the book and both of them have
to do with what Anne was saying earlier. Uh
ABOUT how much we love psychoanalysis. Like, you know,
with everything that we've said so far, it would
be easy to say. So why bother? And many
people have said like in the academy and in
the clinic in clinical settings have said, why bother
with psychoanalysis? It's outdated, it's homophobic, it's transphobic, let's
just throw it out. But the reason why we
persist is because we think that there are so
many um so many concepts in psychoanalysis about which
I'll speak in a moment that offer us ways
of thinking and understanding human experience and psychic life
that are not available in any other therapeutic or
psychological theory. So, psychoanalysis has a deep appreciation for
the strangeness of the unconscious and for things that
are outside our awareness and nevertheless exert an influence
on us and our every day uh producing like
say symptoms or errors that we think are dismissible,
but nevertheless, an important turn out to be important
dreams. Um But also for thinking about the other
way of thinking about the unconscious, which is also
very important is as something that is always that
has to do with something that we will never
fully be able to know about ourselves, that we're
always foreign to ourselves, to some degree and that
we stand to be surprised by ourselves. However well,
we may think we know ourselves. Psych analysis is
like really remarkable in that respect. So it is
based on some of these ideas that we make
two main arguments in the book. The one is
that this notion of gender identity, which in fact
started from psychoanalysis and has spread in many other
types of discourses and conversations. It was proposed by
Robert Soler in 1964. This notion of gender identity
that presumes that there is something true about one's
own experience of one's gender at the core of
the self. Um The first argument in the book
is to say that this is fictional, it's made
up uh which may sound very surprising to some
people because that, that language has really taken and
not only is it um a fictionalized concept, it's
also not a concept that serves as well. Um
It's a concept that does a lot of damage
and we can talk about this more uh through
our conversation. The second argument is to say that
nobody kind of like is it follows from this
notion that gender identity is a fiction but nobody
is born into their gender. Nobody has a gender
that is correct or incorrect about them. Like we
may feel that our gender is right or not,
but there's no gender in the core of the
self that can be confirmed or discon confirmed our
genders come again. This is true for cis people,
for trans people, for gender queer people. It's true
for everyone. It's not just an argument for trans
nest. Um And that psychic processes including trauma may
have something to do with how somebody comes into
their gender, how somebody acquires a gender so that
we want to be able to start conversations about
what it means to not have been feeling like
you're trans from however young, like, you know, people
say, like ever since I was two years old,
I was dressing and kind of like, I always
wanted to wearing dresses. Like, certainly some people have
that experience. But we believe that it is also
important to have ways of thinking about how people
become trans or become queer or become sis, which
is language that we have generally associated with conversion
practices. Um And perhaps I will say a little
bit more about that. Um But we need to
bring that language into our, into affirming thinking for
queer and trans life. And psychoanalysis gives us a
way to do that.
Uh So you're certainly making here an argument against
the idea of gender identity being in some way
innate, right? And being the result of certain, for
example, biological predispositions, like for example, uh brain wiring
or a set of hormones that you have in
your body or a certain set of genes or
something like that.
Right. Absolutely. Um And, and, and I know that
kind of like you have some things that you
might want to say about how we came to
put so much weight on those ideas.
Yes. Yeah, we're definitely arguing against the idea that
either gender or sexuality is inborn. Um And to
that degree immutable because of some sort of biological
basis, whether that biological basis be located in hormones
and DNA um in some, in some region of
the hypothalamus. This was one speculated in respect to
the homosexuality. Um And one of our, we, we
make this observation right, that we, that we do
not think that gender or sexuality is inborn. We
make this observation as clinicians. We also make this
observation on the basis of, you know, I think
we're both persuaded by um years now of work
by historians of gender and sexuality who are pointing
to its social construction, its variability uh and how
in systems that try to organize gender and sexuality,
its variability across cultures. Um But we're also, we're
also aware and this, we, we see that part
of our argument is actually quite um I, I
suppose it could be controversial that we are in
a moment when L GB Q, LGBT Q people
are under attack in numerous national contacts. I'll just
speak about the United States right now. Um As
of early April, I haven't checked since April 2nd,
but as of April 2nd, 484 bills have been
introduced into state legislatures across the United States to
restrict in some way LGBT Q rights and access
to health care. A lot of these bills have
focused on blocking access to gender affirmative care for
trans youth and also for trans adults. So there
is kind of there's a huge not just public
debate, but we could even say a kind of
war on trans people in particular. And it's not
just happening in the United States. I just know
the the statistics about films in the United States,
right? And in the face of such open opposition
to the very possibility of there being trans people.
It just seemed as if the only argument we
who would advocate for trans and queer life would
make. It seemed as if the only argument we
can make is to say that we were born
that way we can't change. Therefore, we deserve equal
rights on the basis of who we are immutably.
Right? So one of the reasons I think born
that way and arguments for mutability have gained traction
is it seemed like that's the only thing we
can say to protect us from discrimination. But it
actually hasn't worked. I mean, it actually hasn't worked
legally, it hasn't worked politically to secure these rights.
It hasn't defeated attempts to roll back rights that
have already been extended. We also think it's ethically
short sighted because the reason not to discriminate against
queer and trans and gender queer people is not
because we were born that way. It's because it's
wrong to discriminate against queer and trans people. It's
just wrong, right. That's so we don't, to me,
you don't need to like an argument from immutability
to make that case. And then as clinicians, it
doesn't square with what we're hearing from the people
we sit with once a week, twice a week,
three times a week, four times a week, we
are hearing much more complex stories about people's genders
and people's sexualities when we sit with them and
when they have the freedom and under and believe
themselves to be in a space that they can
trust when people have the freedom to start talking
about how their own gender, for example, has changed
across their lifetime or how indeed that gender may
have shifted. They've experienced a shift in the wake
of some traumatic event or maybe their sexuality has
shifted in the wake of some traumatic event when
there's the freedom for people to talk about it.
You start hearing how gender and sexuality are not
so immutable are not. So, you know, as it
were stuck for any of us, that their change
does indeed happen. That doesn't this is not a
romance for change because change can also feel scary,
it can feel disorienting. But we, you know, we
think that for all sorts of reasons, again, clinical,
ethical, political legal, the born that way argument just
we actually think it's wrong, it's incorrect, it's not
accurate to the complexity of people's lives.
Uh So before we break down a little bit,
what you just mentioned there, and uh let me
just ask you this. So within your argument uh
about gender identity, would there still be space for
uh certain people who say that they feel that
in their own experience, they were born this or
that way? I mean, is there still space for
accommodating uh those kinds of experiences that people report
or not?
Absolutely. And I really appreciate you saying that we
are in no way legislating how any queer, trans
bisexual gender, non conforming person would describe their relationship
to their gender or their sexuality and especially in
a world where unfortunately, in so many national contexts,
there are laws that would restrict LGBT Q life.
So for someone who is minoritized, marginalized, even oppressed
because of their gender and sexuality, for such a
person to give any account of themselves is an
act actually of, of I think of courage and
is to be commended and affirmed. So we're not
telling those queer and trans people who would save
themselves, they're born that way. Oh, you're so foolish.
We're not saying that at all with this. We're,
we're not in that respect. We would not be
so condescending and arrogant as to presume to tell,
to tell anyone how they're supposed to tell the
story themselves. But because so many queer and trans
people would not describe their genders or their sexuality
in the language of born. That way, we need
to provide more space for the much more complex
stories. People in fact do tell about themselves, but
which, but which some people are being told. Don't
say that in public, it's gonna hurt the movement.
Don't say that in public is going to make
it harder to pass um anti discs laws because
you're, you're basically giving, you're, you're basically in giving
comfort to those who say that trans and queerness
are a matter of being warped. And, you know,
obviously you can say something about the warped that
way, argument. Uh We, we want to create more
expansive um conversation that really holds open the complexities
of how anyone becomes who and how they are.
You know, this is very interesting to me because
uh and this is probably the main reason why
I really loved your book is because even before
I read it, uh for a few years, I've
been having this fought and I, I mean, I'm
not gay, I'm not a ransom or anything like
that. I, I mean, I'm a see straight man.
So people might say, oh, you have no saying
on this matter and that's fair enough. But still
when it comes to protecting LGBT Q plus rights,
yes, that it's still fair to have this sort
of discussion where whatever kind of gender identity or
sexual orientation you might have because I think that
when it comes to relying too much on this
kind of born this way type of argument, uh
I agree with you when you say that it
might be harmful even for advancing LGBT Q plus
rights. Because first of all, the argument, as you
said should be, uh it's, there's nothing wrong with
being gay, lesbian, trans person because that's not wrong.
There's nothing wrong with that. And that should be
the argument and not, oh, it's not wrong because
people can't change it. It's not wrong because they
were born that way. So there's nothing we can
do about it. It's just their nature or something
along those lines. But then the second way by
which it can be harmful is that what if
people find out that that's not true and that
people can actually change their gender identity or even
through unconscious processes or something like that through their
own history experience. And even I, I mean, I'm
not sure if that would be true in any
way or not, but, but even through their own
choice because even if this was a choice, I
don't think there would be anything wrong with that
again. So I, I mean, what are your thoughts
on all of what I just said here?
I mean, it's so interesting to hear you say,
look, I'm not gay or trans myself, but this
idea of like gender is immutable and it's in
you and you have it from the beginning doesn't
make sense. Um Kind of like you don't have
to be gay or trans to see that there's
nothing that adds up about that kind of narrative.
Now, as Anne was saying, kind of like our
argument is pitched to clinicians and it's pitched to
people who think about gender and to politicians who
kind of like want to see some notion and
you know, when we say that like, gender is
not immutable, we don't just mean biologically that, you
know, there's no chromosome or hormone or whatever. We
also mean that this notion, this psychologize notion of
like your internal sense of who you are is
something true that that too is an argument of
immutability and an argument of innateness, even as that
is not hinged on biology, but hinged on psychological
truth. Right. So, um, you know, like when you
say, and I really, like when you said, like,
you know, what if it were a choice, um
you know, like what would be wrong with that?
It's only if you start with the premise that
being trans or queer is a bad outcome that
having it be a choice becomes a problem. And
I think kind of like you don't have to
be queer or trans to see that uh you
just have to be a thinking person. Um But
you know, but, but here's where psychoanalysis offers us
a different kind of resource, um which is kind
of both paradoxical and we think very expensive and
hopeful, which is to say that kind of like,
even as there's nothing wrong with people making a
choice, there's also ways in which kind of like
we, things appeal to us, our bodies are experienced
by us in certain ways, our attractions, our relations,
our understandings of ourselves come to us, not always
as a result of a choice. Um But not
neither as imposed necessarily that sometimes of like very
complex psychic processes, some of which have to do
with unconscious life and like synergize, kind of like
come together to make us who we are. So
one of the most forceful and formidable, I think
uh formidable in the sense of pushing back against
received wisdom, arguments that we make in the book
is this idea that even trauma may have something
to do with how somebody becomes the gender that
they understand themselves to be. And this takes us
back to what Anne referenced as a war this
way. So on the one hand, we have born
this way as like that's how you were born
with this kind of gender identity or these genes.
On the other hand, you have this idea that
everybody should be cis or trans cis or binary
gendered from the beginning. And if you mistakenly think
mistakenly in quotes that you're uh trans or non
binary or gender queer, that's because something bad must
have happened to you that kind of derailed you
from your normal and healthy course. And I put
normal and healthy in quotes, um normal and healthy
course that would have made you kind of like
normative gendered. That argument has been very much weaponized
and used against queer and trans people um in
including by queer and trans people themselves who find
who, who we see the clinic being very worried
that if something about their sexuality may have a
little bit to do with, or a lot to
do with trauma or if something about their gender
shifts after a traumatic experience, then maybe they're not
truly trans or truly queer, maybe they're just bent
out of shape or derailed. And I, I was
thinking, I don't know if, uh, if you or
any of our listeners have had a chance to
see Baby Reindeer the, the Netflix series, um, that
is now kind of like, actually quite everybody's talking
about. It's a really interesting Netflix series because it
is, it portrays the true story of a man
who begins to who has kind of like an
experience of sexual assault, which it takes him some
time to understand it as a sexual assault. And
it raises questions about whether it inflects sexual orientation,
whether his desires uh that begin to deviate from
being just straight desires are somehow impacted by this
trauma. Now, the usual response to that the affirmative
response, the non homophobic response is absolutely not. Maybe
this just helped him understand that he was gay
or this is a homophobic argument to make. But
part of what we want to do and what
we do through psychoanalysis and gender without identity is
to say that of course, trauma can have a
share in. So how somebody acquires their gender, how
somebody acquires their sexuality without that having to mean
that it's delegitimizing of somebody's trans. If, if trauma
has something to do with your queerness that does
not make you less queer or not truly queer
because that's also how heterosexuality and and normative gender
are also constituted. They're also constituted through trauma. We're
just not used to seeing them as constituted. We
see them as just having been there always. Um
And we can say more about how that happens
for heterosexuality and cis gender too. But like what
we want to do is help both our colleagues
in our field. But also uh larger conversations that
are happening around g we want to help people
build a tolerance for thinking about how trauma does
not just break you or warp you or uh
disfigure your psychic life. But it can also put
emotional processes that take you in different directions that
people do not just do things about their trauma,
they also do things with their trauma. And those
things that we do with trauma are as much
part of psychic autonomy, as conscious choices that we
make even as they may not be as conscious
um as the decision to do this or that.
Um
mhm uh So, but just for this point to
be clear because um I, I mean, o of
course, I'm not very much into psychoanalytic theory. So
you will have to explain, explain this bit here.
So when it comes to trauma, because of course,
I would imagine that the sort of ways people
approach trauma, for example, in social psychology or in
sociology would differ from the ways U psycho analysts
approach trauma. So for the audience, how do psychoanalysts
usually approach trauma? What the stra mean for psycho
for psychoanalysis?
I I'll begin and then I want, I'll hand
the VP as well. I mean, I guess one
thing to say is that there is no one
way in which trauma is theorized and thought about
within even psychoanalysis. Um SO, and, and one, um
let's say particular way in which even psychoanalysis has
struggled over the question of trauma. And this is
something ay has talked about at length in her
solo book, Sexuality Beyond Consent is that psychoanalysis, numerous
psychological practices, psychotherapies often speak of trauma as something
that is can be cured or healed, that it's
something that broke into and broke apart and otherwise
intact subject, right? And so then the, so the
task of a therapeutic treatment, the task of clinical
work would be to help put the pieces back
together to, we can use the language of heal
or cure this despite the fact that when pushed
pretty much every psychoanalyst would say you can't actually
heal or cure trauma. So then what is it,
is trauma, something that is a matter of breaking
us apart and that we're trying to put back
together or is it, does it do a different
kind of work? So we are in our book
and our thinking, drawing on a particular psychoanalytic way
of thinking about trauma. We're drawing on the work
of Jean Laplanche, she was a deep um reader
of Freud. Um BUT he um makes some really
interesting points about trauma as being normative to the
generation, the production of any self that there's something
about the way in which we're all set into
motion. And La Planche even thinks about the constitution
of what we could call the ego and the
constitution of what psychoanalysis calls the unconscious. Out of
the the ne the infants struggle to make sense
of materials that have come into the infant body
from the other, from the parental other quite often
from caretakers material that the infant has to make
sense of. Um AND has to make sense of
in part because even the adult doesn't even know
the particular kinds of messages or communications they're making
and just these ordinary acts of care of holding
the infant, of cleaning the infant of feeding the
infant. We're not talking about an adult who's making
as it were traumatic incursions into the infant through
sexual abuse. We're talking about everyday interactions between the
adult and the infant. Laplanche says become the occasions
for a certain kind of implantation of of adult
material which is unconscious to the adult into the
infant. This is what La Planche thinks of as
a kind of normative trauma that set something in
motion. And this is and what is set into
motion is the effort the infant then must make
the the infant becoming human, right? Um The effort
the infant must make to as it were translate
those strange intrusions from the the adult unconscious to
translate a content that actually has no content. And
here's some, here's a space for psychic freedom. That
translation has is a space of psychic freedom. Why?
Because there's no actual content that even the adult
doesn't know the content of those communications and the
infant translates will come to language as it were
or represent things that have happened by drawing on
material from the Laplanche uses the language of the
myth of symbolic. Basically drawing on the vernaculars, the
categories made available in the culture of the family
and in the wider culture and these categories, these
concepts, these vernaculars include the vernaculars of gender, include
the vernaculars of sexuality. So we draw on these
categories outside ourselves to make sense of something that's
come into ourselves. Laplanche would say, and again, that's
normative trauma. It happens to all of us. He
even argues it's necessary that it happens to all
of us to set us in motion to become
a particular kind of human. This we could distinguish
this normative trauma from, we could say uppercase t
trauma which are events that not everyone experiences. It
could be the, the the trauma of um a
sexual assault, the trauma of um the experience of
genocide, the trauma of even everyday racism we could
think of as a kind of trauma that accumulates
on top of the normative trauma of being, you
know, called into subjectivity. But this is we're drawing
in the plan and we're also drawing on it
through work has done uh on her own as
well.
So let me ask you about this since we're
talking here about gender identity and also more specifically
about trends, people. What do you think about the
diagnosis of gender dysphoria? I mean, how would you
approach that through this perspective?
Yeah, this is a really important question because gender
dysphoria is the catchphrase right now on how uh
trans people are being seen as kind of like
abnormalize and pathological. Um Let me actually loop to
your question through something that Ann said, you know,
when you were asking about trauma. Um YOU know,
another way to say some of the things that
Ann was describing is that no, usually in popular
culture and in some therapeutic models, we think of
trauma as you have an organized self, you have,
you are who you are and then you have
something from the outside, either overwhelming you or trying
to damage you and then you have to protect
against it. And if you can protect against its
success and if you can't, you can get traumatized.
So trauma is usually seen as kind of like
a trespass from the outside, right? And it is
in that model that the idea is that if
you have been broken by trauma, then the point
is to be repaired to return to some intact.
But the, the particular offering of psychoanalysis that we're
working with here is this idea that of like
that we are broken through by things all the
time, from the beginning of our lives, through the
through our experiences. In fact, people who imagine that
they are unbreakable or deserve to be unbroken are
people with kind of like social privilege with certain
kinds of entitlements. Uh Whiteness works very much like
that. It's entitled to be unbroken. And if it's
broken, then kind of like somebody has to be
harmed uh over it. Um So kind of like
the model that we're working with is the idea
that trauma is actually everywhere in psychic life and
that it is in response to trauma that the
psyche is forced to, to invent to do something
with what you do with that breach from what
can be experienced from the outside. Once it's inside
you, it's too late like it's already inside you.
Another question is what do you do with it?
You can try to evict it. But sometimes, I
mean, like there's certainly many models through for thinking
about how some organisms take that thing from the
uh from what feels like the outside and do
something with it and make it part of the
self and may make something, sometimes that thing become
works and sometimes it doesn't. Um So when, when
you're talking about gender dysphoria to come back to,
to your specific question, the term gender dysphoria presumes
that this psychic, this, this person should have stayed
intact in there, presumably original. And I'll put this
in air, quote, healthy gender of being and binary,
but something has invaded them and it causes them
like in the world this way, uh reference that
we're making earlier and it has caused them to
be dysphoric. When in fact, if it had not
invaded them, they would have been at peace with
their normative cisgender. Um This of course, doesn't permit
for the possibility that kind of like, first of
all, you kind of like not, we don't start
out sis or binary and it does permit for
the fact that people do with trauma, all kinds
of things including kind of like pro uh coming,
coming to different kinds of genders. Um So gender
dysphoria is a very anthologizing way of talking about
trans because it presumes that you are, I was
like it, it used to be, I mean, I
should, I should finish this thought first because it
presumes that there's something pathological about being trans. Now,
historically, it used to be a way that people
were talking, trying to describe their relationship with their
body that they were feeling dysphoria between how they
were assigned, how people saw their gender, how they
experienced it and what they felt in their body.
But increasingly so, um dysphoria is the word that
is being um instrumental um utilized um misused in
order to argue that there's something off about people
who want to transition or to say that only
people who have a certain degree of dysphoria should
have access to um to gender affirming care. So
you see, like, it's interesting to see how kind
of like those arguments kind of like, cut both
ways. Like, if you have too much dysphoria, it's
a problem and if you have too little, it's
a problem. And that begins to, to point as
to how dysphoria is a problematic term in that
context.
And I'll just add that. I, I think, you
know, dysphoria, either way, dysphoria includes a model. It
takes for granted a model of immutability. The anti
trans version of dysphoria is that a someone who
should have been cysts because everyone is actually cysts,
something has warped them such that they mistakenly think
they're a different gender. So there's some so that,
but that mistake is itself a symptom. There's some
so that um but here, dysphoria presumes the core,
the immutable core would be cyst. That is normative
gendered. The, the transformative model is that dysphoria um
indicates actually the difficulties and in fact, there are
real difficulties in living in the world as someone
who's trans because we live in a transphobic world.
But dysphoria would then name like this discordance between
the, again the sex assigned at birth and the
gender one feels oneself to be um usually articulated
through a born that way model, I've always been
this way, we have to now fix this incongruity.
So as to get rid of the dysphoria. But
again, dysphoria, I think is built on a premise
of immutability, whether an anti transversion or transforming version.
So le let me ask you this and I
know this is a very sensitive question. But since
that idea is out there, I guess we also
have to address it because when it comes to
trans people nowadays, particularly from uh the American right,
and also the right wing in other countries, we
have this very uh common idea that when it
comes to certain people and particularly when it comes
to Children, identifying us rounds that there would be
an element of social contagion to it. So according
to the framework you bring into your book, would
there be space for that kind of phenomenon or
not?
You know, this idea of contagion that somehow kids
are catching transnet there, you know, because they're, they're
on, you know, basically a contagion by internet, a
contagion by again, a bad teacher, a contagion by,
oh this other kid is trans. So maybe I
am too, this is actually relying on what is
a now discredited study um which causes this notion
of rapid onset gender dysphoria. This this the paper
promoting that actually had to be retracted. It was
its methods were so um dubious and yet the
term has gained traction and it circulates with a
kind of medical panache to it. See, even the
experts say um it's a contagion. Um We think
that also we, we would absolutely reject the notion
of contagion. Um But we do want to note
the following. There may well be an increase in
the number of young people identifying as gender, non
conforming and identifying as trans. But we should not
be surprised at that increase. Why the the psychotic
model we're using um involves the idea that as
we make, we make sense of ourselves, we elaborate
ourselves. This is not a fully volitional process, but
we elaborate ourselves. We come to give names to
ourselves, sometimes not the names our parents gave us,
not the names society wants to assign to us,
but we come to self theorize and self elaborate
drawing on existing cultural categories. And because there are
now in numerous cultural contexts, more categories, more names
for the ways we can do our gender, including
the name trans, including the name, gender, non binary.
It of course makes sense that more Children having
available those new or newly emergent vernaculars would use
those names to describe their experiences of embodiment, their
experiences of themselves. But this is not a contagion.
This is about the ongoing transformation of culture that
has come about in part through political struggle. It's
also about ongoing possibilities of self transformation in light
of social changes. This isn't a 1 to 1
thing. Oh you learned about trans. Now you think
you are, it's a much more complex interaction, right?
The contagion model assumes that something comes into you
and Voila. There you are, you just think this
you are this, we, we're actually talking about a
much more complex interaction and the social matters, but
it doesn't matter in this again, 1 to 1
mono causal way.
Mhm I get it. Uh So let me ask
you now another kind of question. So when it
comes to the way you approach gender identity here
and particularly the bit about trauma, uh I, I
wanted to ask you whatever way people deal with
their specific traumas, whether they are single events or
whether they are ongoing experiences that they have throughout
their lives, whatever way they deal with it in
terms of, of how they express themselves uh on
the level of their gender identity, for example, is
there any one correct way of doing that? I
mean, uh if uh different people through their own
particular experiences get at different or develop different sorts
of gender identity? I mean, is there uh are
anyone doing anything wrong with their own gender identity?
I guess that's what I'm asking you. I mean,
from a more uh let's say clinical perspective, I
guess.
Yeah, I, I think that's part of the implication
as you're picking up on with where we're heading
and we talk about this in, in our, in
our book quite a bit that if we go
with what one who's ex and was explaining earlier,
there is no way to get your gender right.
And there's no way to get your gender wrong.
Like there's rightness and wrongness have nothing to do
with gender. There's no way to assess if somebody
is truly trans or if somebody is really a
woman sis or otherwise, like there's no way to
pin gender to precision or actuality, in fact, if
anything. Um AND this is kind of like the
the really expansive and more radical proposition that we
offer in our volume is that gender is a
wildly improvisational process. And this is why actually, even
though people stand under categories, like some people might
say, I identify as a woman or identify as
a trans mask, uh non-binary person, like none of
these categories includes in them kind of like homogeneous
subjects. Like all women are women differently, all cis
women or trans women or kind of like non
binary people. That's why you see so much variation
in gender, like they share some things but really
like every gender, there's, there's as many genders as
there are people, even as we try to group
them in different categories to make this distinction. So
obviously, I'm not saying that these distinctions are meaningless,
but they are not as decisive or firm or
tight as we imagine them to be.
And you know, in the very fact that these
distinctions are not so tight, in fact, they're porous.
I think this is part of what feeds the
current moral panic over trans kids and, and trans
adults as well. Because I think that for, for
many people, the prospect that, that there I'll say
for many cis people, right? For many people who
are normative gendered have experienced their gender as unchanging
across their lifetime. I think that a trans person,
a non binary person could challenge some of their
own settled assumptions about their gender. I'm not saying
that suddenly someone who's normally gender is like, oh
my God, what if I'm trans too? Although people
might, their trans panic might take the form of,
well, this person could change, maybe I could as
well. But I think it, I think part of
the panic is that it, it does something to
you to realize that, oh, what are all the
ways in which I'm not exactly how I think
I am like, what does it mean to, you
know, come reckon with all the ways in which
even for someone who was assigned female at birth,
who identifies comfortably or? So it feels to her
with the category girl and then woman, right? Even
that person has undergone changes in her gender across
her lifetime changes that also might be connected to
physiological changes of puberty. Maybe there was a pregnancy
then menopause, right? So we're not saying the body
doesn't matter. We're not saying biology doesn't matter, but
it's not 1 to 1 in the ways it
matters but I think that it's very scary to
a lot of people to encounter the ways in
which not just the world is changing around them,
like, politically, socially, the world is changing around them.
But actually they may not be exactly who and
how they think they are. That's can be frightening
for many people to encounter.
So let me ask you one last question. Then
when it comes to reps, the hopes you would
have for your book. I mean, when it comes
to, I, if you were to decide in an
ideal world, what sort of influence would the book
like this have on your uh psycho uh uh
psychoanalytic colleagues? Uh AND people like that, what would
you like basically for other psychoanalysts to take from
this book? And in what ways would you love
for it to have an impact on how psychoanalytic
theory and psychoanalysts approach, the topics like gender identity?
Um I really appreciate this question and, and I
also appreciate that the vision and the hopefulness of
this question that our book could have that kind
of an impact, which of course we would love
for each case. Uh I mean, I think I
can think of three things at the moment and
I'm sure that Ann may have things to add
to that the first would be to begin to
move away from this notion of gender identity. Um
And to become smarter and able to think more
complexly about how people acquire their gender. Um PSYCHOANALYSIS
has always had very, very elaborate theories about how
CIS people become cis. I mean, it, it, it
has not seen itself as doing that. But, you
know, we actually have a lot of theories about
how boys become boys and girls become girls and,
and was talking about that a little bit earlier.
So we want to extend that resource that of
complexity to queer and trans people. The second is
to begin to take seriously the ways in which
trauma is actually part of life and not the
thing that interrupts it. And this is not to
minimize that trauma is difficult or, or to say
that we should pull back from social justice movements.
That's not what we're saying at all. It is
to say that since trauma is inevitable, thinking in
ways that are more trauma, ahi rather than trauma,
phobic thinking with ways about that have to do
more with what people do with their trauma and
how different kinds of self configurations arise out of
trauma without invalidating them without treating them as um
as being uh illegitimate uh is very important. And
the third is to to begin to take more
seriously kind of like how much more brutal and
strange gender is than we realize. But gender is
very strange and all of our efforts to understand
it, to master it, to have some Dominion over
it, to control it, whether people try to control
it through words or through categorization or through who
gets access or not. This is that gender as,
as uh Paulo Preciado says is always going to
mutate, you know, even when you feel you're kind
of like at the at the leading edge of
trying to understand something, it will always slip away
and that's not a bad thing. That's not a
failure that has to do with the kind of
like how with the mortality and the energy of
psychic life and of what it means to be
alive.
I mean, I think this is also about flagging
and this is one of the things we hope
it will do in the book, it flag the
Experimentalism of gender. Um And that, that experimentalism um
is to be validated and given and given space
for for however long that particular experiment lasts such
that people are also allowed to change. If it's
an experiment, one can change and change again. Um
We would say it's gender transition all the way
down, right? Um One thing that I want to
go back to something we talked about earlier is
that um one of the strongest claims our book
makes and we make it over and over and
over again in different kinds of language is that
there is nothing wrong with being queer or trans
or gender non-binary. But even more importantly, there is
no wrong way to become queer or trans or
gender, non binary. That's we want this this is
a really big takeaway. We want our book to
have and you know, I, I know you've raised
and we really appreciate this question. What would you
want? How would we wish psychoanalysts maybe put this
book to work? You know, this is our book
also is standing on the shoulders of other psychoanalytic
thinkers who are trying to do queer and trans
affirmative work, right? So we're really grateful for that
work. We also could not have written this book
without the resources of queer and trans studies. And,
and, and very importantly, queer and trans of color
critique. We needed these resources from outside psychoanalysis to
help shake psychoanalysis up and make it more rethink
supple more accountable, right? Um But some of your,
of your viewers might think well. Ok, great. This
is actually a book for psychoanalysts. We don't really,
at the end of the day, we don't kind
of care about psychoanalysis. We'll let them have this
conversation. Here's why your viewers should care about psychoanalysis
because psychoanalysis cares about queer and trans people. Although
the way that psychoanalysis cares about queer and trans
people isn't so caring. What do I mean by
that, that in I'll speak about the United States,
anti trans, especially anti trans legislation and anti trans
policies that would bar access to gender affirmative care
and in particular bar children's access to gender affirmative
care. Much of this legal language, these bills, these
proposed bills and even some legal opinions are undergirded
by, they refer to medical research. Much of this
medical research is being done by psychoanalytic activists by
psychoanalysts who oppose we would say oppose trans life,
especially um um have difficulties even acknowledging the reality
of trans Children. So, um psychoanalysts are doing a
lot of mischief in the world right now in
the United States, in Britain and Australia in other
contexts too. I know better the English language publications
on this. But so unfortunately, psychoanalysis is being put
to use and weaponized against queer and trans people
and especially trans people right now. That's another reason
why we think we hope our book will do
some work in the world was to show that
there are other kinds of psychoanalytic arguments that can
be made to promote queer and trans flourishing and
arguments. We think that could maybe not get stuck
in the dead end of born that way, warped
that way, right? We think that these particular debates
are not happening, he helping queer and trans people
and are flourishing.
So I think that's a great message to end
our conversation on and the book is again, gender
without identity. I'm leaving a link to it in
the description of the interview and an and avi
would you like to tell the audience apart from
the book where they can find you and your
work on the internet?
So, uh thank you for um asking that um
we are both online. Uh MY people can find
my work on my website um www of yulo.com
and I'm also on Instagram um where my um
handle is at Golis 98 a Vgolis 98 where
you can follow me and see what I'm doing,
um talks I'm giving and interact with me there.
We also read reviews that people write of our
books. So if you want to engage with us
this way, please leave reviews where you leave your
um reviews on the internet.
Uh And uh where can people find you?
Right? Sorry. As I, as I talk into the
muted mic, um I can be found on Instagram
as well at a pl 168. That's a pe
LL 168. And I also have a website um
and pellegrini.com and I'm also happy to interact with
people um through social media.
Great. So thank you so much again for coming
on the show. Look, I really, really love this
conversation. So thank you so much.
Thank you so much. Thank you. It's been a
pleasure.
Hi guys. Thank you for watching this interview. Until
the end. If you liked it, please share it.
Leave a like and hit the subscription button. The
show is brought to you by N Lights Learning
and development. Then differently check the website at N
lights.com and also please consider supporting the show on
Patreon or paypal. I would also like to give
a huge thank you to my main patrons and
paypal supporters, Perego Larson, Jerry Muller and Frederick Suno
Bernard Seche O of Alex Adam, Castle Matthew Whitting
Bear. No wolf, Tim Ho Erica LJ Connors Philip
Forrest Connelly. Then the Met Robert Wine in NAI
Z Mar Nevs calling in Hobel Governor Mikel Stormer
Samuel Andre Francis for Agns Ferger Ken Hall, her
ma J and Lain Jung Y and the Samuel
K Hes Mark Smith J Tom Hummel s friends,
David Sloan Wilson Yaar, Roman Roach Diego, Jan Punter,
Romani Charlotte, Bli Nicole Barba, Adam Hunt, Pavlo Stassi
Nale Me, Gary G Alman, Samo, Zal Ari and
YPJ Barboza Julian Price Edward Hall, Eden Broner Douglas
Fry Franka La Gilon Cortez or Scott Zachary ftdw
Daniel Friedman, William Buckner, Paul Giorgio, Luke Loki, Georgio,
Theophano, Chris Williams and Peter Wo David Williams, the
Ausa Anton Erickson Charles Murray, Alex Shaw, Marie Martinez,
Coralie Chevalier, Bangalore. Larry Dey junior, Old Ebon, Starry
Michael Bailey then Spur by Robert Grassy Zorn. Jeff
mcmahon, Jake Zul Barnabas Radick Mark Temple, Thomas Dvor
Luke Neeson, Chris Tory Kimberly Johnson, Benjamin Gilbert Jessica,
a week in the Brendan Nicholas Carlson, Ismael Bensley
Man, George Katis, Valentine Steinman Perros Kate Von Goler,
Alexander Albert Liam Dan Biar Masoud Ali Mohammadi Perpendicular
J Ner Urla. Good enough Gregory Hastings David Pins
of Sean Nelson, Mike Levin and Jos Net. A
special thanks to my producers is our web, Jim
Frank Luca Toni, Tom Ween Bernard N Cortes Dixon
Bendik Muller Thomas Trumble. Catherine and Patrick Tobin, John
Carl, Negro, Nick Ortiz and Nick Golden. And to
my executive producers, Matthew lavender, Si Adrian Bogdan Knits
and Rosie. Thank you for all.